(screen buzzing and crackling)
- Black Lives Matter is
a Marxist organization.
- How many innocent Americans
have these people hurt?
- Fear is the best motivator.
- When Mexico sends its people.
- They're invading. they're
murdering. they're raping.
- How many moms are grieving
because of our sanctuary cities?
- You don't have
to talk about politics.
You have to talk about how
the brain of a human works.
- Critical race
theory is poison.
- These people
hate white people.
- There is now a white
fear industrial complex.
- Mexican criminals.
- Black Lives Matter terrorists.
- Radical Islamic terrorism
- Where many
people get very rich
and very powerful by
telling white America
that they are under
constant assault.
- They want to steal
your liberty. your freedom.
- I want surveillance
of certain mosques.
- This is strategic racism.
- We will never. ever
surrender to the woke mob.
- Tapping into white
grievance and anxiety
and then exploiting and
creating more and more of it.
- Chaos in the
streets. in the schools.
- They're eating the dogs.
They're eating the cats.
- This country is being invaded.
- And when you're
scared. you fight back.
- We want our country back.
- [Protester] Heck yeah!
- [Reporter] White supremacist
protests turned violent.
- [Reporter] Panic in
El Paso this morning.
- [Reporter] Motivated
by anti-immigrant hatred.
- [Reporter] 13 people
were shot. 10 of them killed.
- [Reporter] He specifically
targeted black people.
- [Policeman] We're
under fire. We're under fire.
(somber music)
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
(pistol blasting)
- [Narrator] Talk in the
suburbs of tanks and troops
and terror in the
streets has led her
to the pistol range. a
grandmother fearful.
- [Instructor] The little
manuals that you have.
keep them with your cookbooks.
They make a pretty
good reference.
- [Narrator] The gun is
suburbia's new tranquilizer.
These housewives
in Dearborn. Michigan.
an all-white city of 100.000.
are learning to use it.
All-white Dearborn is
on the edge of Detroit.
which is 40% black.
Fear and hate
are the only bonds.
- As we look at America.
we see cities enveloped
and smoke and flame.
We hear sirens in the night.
- When Nixon ran
for president in 1968.
he came up with a template
that countless other
politicians would use:
Scare white voters about
race without being openly racist.
- The city of Washington. DC.
has now become the
crime capital of the world.
- So he really started
talking about law and order.
- The law and the order
and the justice that
all Americans want.
- And crime in the streets
and the right of
people to be secure
and protected from crime.
knowing that many people had
a racialized
understanding of crime.
Crime as something
done by black people
and done to white people.
- We're going to launch a
successful war against crime
in the United States of America.
- We know that for white voters.
law and order has a
particular connotation.
- Everybody that lives with
the colored has to move.
- Why?
- Because you're
not safe walking
the streets at night.
You cannot leave the house.
- Nixon has these
theorists on staff
who are coming up
with theories about how
to accomplish winning the
votes of white Americans.
One of the most eloquent
is a young man
named Kevin Phillips.
And he says that politics
is the organized. you know.
deployment of hatreds.
The argument. basically.
is that if Republicans wanna
become the dominant party.
they have to lean into
the most epic hatred
in America of all.
which is the hatred
of white people
for black people.
- He says the whole secret
to politics is understanding
who hates who.
And if you can figure that out
and tap into those hatreds.
you can win elections.
And at the time. who hates
who boiled down to whites
who'd fled the central
cities were scared
about African Americans.
Scared about them
coming out to the suburbs.
- [Homeowner] Let
me tell you one thing.
You better not show his
face in front of my house
because it means my own life.
I'd shoot him. Fear is fear.
And when you get fear
into you. you'll do anything.
- I say to you that
when the time comes
that we have fear in
the streets of our cities.
it's not time for
the old leadership.
it's time for new leadership.
- He has another young
staffer named Pat Buchanan
who says very
much the same thing:
We have to divide
the country in two.
And if we divide
the country in two
and end up with the bigger
half. then we'll be able to.
you know. dominate the future.
- Shoot to kill.
If they're old enough to
violate the law. shoot them.
If there's laws for us.
there's laws for niggers.
Let them start obeying them.
- Every home should
have a shotgun
to ward off would-be
attackers or terrorists
who may invade
white neighborhoods.
- Nixon's strategy of
fear-mongering works.
He wins in 1968. He
wins again in 1972.
- That's why Richard Nixon
won the single biggest landslide
in American history in 1972.
49 states.
It wasn't because
of his personality.
Nixon won because he promised
what his opponent refused
to promise: law and order.
- The typical Republican
voter was the kind of man
for whom Richard Nixon had
programmed his campaign.
And though Nixon
never really said it.
that forgotten American who
voted for Nixon also was white.
(audience cheers)
- Now. there's a lot
of things going on
in the 1972 election.
Vietnam War. unrest on
campuses. the feminist movement.
It wasn't all race.
And yet. I think
primarily it was race.
Not all race. but
primarily race.
No Democratic candidate
for president since 1964.
not Jimmy Carter.
not Bill Clinton.
not Barack Obama. not Joe Biden.
has carried a majority
of the white vote.
American electoral politics
after Richard Nixon's
victory is first and foremost
about racial resentment.
(reflective music)
(upbeat music)
- [Reporter] Good morning.
welcome to Fox News Channel.
- [Reporter] This is Fox News.
now all the news you
need in 15 minutes.
- Rupert Murdoch is one step
closer to realizing his dream
of a 24-hour global
news channel.
His conservative
fingerprints are smudged all
over his newspapers.
Many analysts wonder if he
will use the TV news channel
to spread his gospel.
- In 1995. Rupert Murdoch
hired me as president
of Fox News to create
a proper news division.
But in 1996. Rupert
hired Roger Ailes
as chairman of news and cable.
Roger Ailes' background
was largely Republican
and conservative.
- [Reporter] Ailes is known
as a conservative pit bull
who masterminded political
campaigns for Ronald Reagan.
launched Rush
Limbaugh's TV show.
- We just expect to do
fine. balanced journalism.
- Roger was a conservative hack.
a hitman in Republican politics.
and he got Richard
Nixon elected.
And that ought to
tell you something.
- Let me put it this way.
I don't believe anyone
will ever be elected
to a major public office again
without the skillful
use of television.
- [Interviewer] And
that skillful use.
is that an illumination
of the issues
or an emotional sell
of the man involved?
- I think both.
- Roger. after he's hired.
contacts me and says.
"Let's go to lunch."
And he says. "I
need you to stay on
because I don't know anything
about news." he tells me.
And he said. "Let me
ask you a question.
Why are you a liberal?"
And I was taken aback.
and I said. "I'm a liberal?"
He said. "Well. you worked
for the Communist
Broadcasting System. CBS."
And then over the
next minute or two.
he started railing
against the media.
He said that the
media is all liberal.
- The American
people are very smart.
They know the difference
between news. facts. analysis.
commentary.
opinion. spin. and BS.
The other news organizations
won't tell you the difference.
We will.
- Roger Ailes was the
perfect Fox News viewer.
He was an aging
white male Republican
who claimed he didn't recognize
the country he was
living in anymore.
- Quick poll. Are we in
a state of moral decline?
- The fact of the matter is.
a third of all children today
are born out of wedlock.
- [Reporter] Gay ed.
It could become part of
your child's school curriculum.
We report both sides
of the story. You decide.
- He saw a lane where
everybody else as liberal.
and I can create a
conservative channel.
And that will speak
to millions of people.
and I will be able
to win them over.
- I had to launch Fox News.
and we had no studios.
control rooms. stars.
programs. or anything else.
but we did have an idea.
And we knew there
was an audience.
- I said. "I do not do
alternative news channels.
I only do journalism."
And I left. But that
is where he started.
He basically created a
channel for people just like him.
For people who were
afraid of the changes
that were royally in America.
For people who wanted
to pull the country back
to when he thought the
country was a better place.
- [Reporter] We must say now
that we are a
nation under siege.
Right now. we are
a nation under siege.
- The sea change of 9/11 was
that suddenly everyone was like.
"What's going on
in the Middle East?
Like. what is this religion.
this Quran they're
teaching to hate America?"
- 9/11 was the turning
point for Fox News.
Fox was immediately catapulted
into the ratings stratosphere.
- [Reporter] And America
has been under attack this day.
the 11th of September. 2001.
- [Analyst] Certainly.
there are many countries
in the Middle East who don't
like us. who fly heavy jets.
Iran does. Syria
does. Iraq does.
- It becomes us versus
them. a clash of civilizations.
- Either you are with us. or
you are with the terrorists.
- After 9/11. all the American
media was unfair to Muslims.
but right-wing talk radio
and cable channels like Fox
News took it to another level.
- I heard a guy on the
news show once say.
it was actually
right after 9/11.
and he said. "You know.
the Muslim holiday of Eid.
which is the holiday after
Ramadan. is spelled E-I-D."
And he said. "If you
spell it backwards.
what does it spell?
It spells 'die.'"
- Many Americans
have long suspected
that some in the Muslim
world are so fanatical.
they believe
murder is acceptable
in the name of their religion.
- When I interviewed
insiders at Fox.
the term "brown menace"
came up over and over again.
They are programming
to stoke fear of the other.
usually. a brown-skinned
person who is frightening
to the white Christian audience.
- It's shaping up to be a world
war between Muslim fanatics
and the rest of us who
don't want to be killed
by people who say.
"Allah wants it done."
- Having a political family
that was just. you know.
very plugged into
the right-wing media.
Fox tells them what
to think about politics.
- It's either we stop them.
or they're going to make
mashed potatoes out of us.
- You have to be
careful about Muslims
who have a very strong.
in many ways. very finitive.
but a very strong religion.
which supersedes any sense
of nationalism wherever they go.
- I think what's so
often underappreciated
is that so much of
this is about the money.
Rupert Murdoch's
programming choices.
Roger Ailes' creation of Fox
News into what it is today.
It's about the money and power.
- These people are not rational.
They are not going to
respond to your call. Reverend.
In fact. they would
blow your brains out
if they got a chance.
- I think that their coverage
was irresponsible at times.
It wasn't balanced.
and it really ends up
dividing the country
and leading to violence
against Muslims.
inappropriately and unfairly.
- My bag got flagged
through the conveyor thing
at Tampa International Airport.
And they opened up my bag.
and then they pick up the Quran.
And then it was like.
"We're going through
all your stuff now."
Your instinct in that
moment is to. for me.
was to get sarcastic.
right. and just be like.
"Oh. oh. so you're looking
for the bomb. I'm sorry.
Yeah. yeah. no. God. you
know. I left the bomb at home."
I am the worst
terrorist. (laughs)
- [Crew Member] Didn't
blow up. What am I gonna do?
- I've done it. I'm
gonna get so fired.
Oh my God. This
plane is gonna make it.
- The face of terror is
not the true face of Islam.
- Everyone applauds
George W. Bush
for this famous speech he
does after the 9/11 attacks.
where he says.
"'Islam' means peace.
Muslims aren't the enemy."
- Islam is peace.
- I could tell you. as an American
and as a Muslim American.
based upon the policies
of the Bush administration.
they were able to
weaponize racism and fear
and anxiety to turn a
majority of Americans
against their Muslim neighbors.
- We are at war.
We are at war with terrorists.
- You hear about terrorists.
which is a race-neutral term.
but post 9/11 meant Muslims.
- Chasing down
terrorists and criminals.
- The war on Islamic fascism.
- Militant Islamic
fundamentalism.
- Islamofascism and the terror
that has been utilized
by Islamofascists
and unleashed on
liberty-loving peoples.
- They went after our mosques.
They went after
our institutions.
- When you are at war.
civil liberties are
treated differently.
- The NYPD spent
years surveilling
innocent Muslim Americans.
and they found zero
actionable threats.
- I think that a
lot. for the people
in the administration. in
the Bush administration.
you'd find were
genuinely saying.
"We need to do what we can
to protect the homeland." right?
Like. it's this combination
of earnest policy people
and. like. political
people who are trying
to color between the lines.
and probably a
handful of rat fuckers
who are trying to think about.
"Okay. what can we do
to get people pissed?"
- Our strategy is this.
We will fight them over
there so we do not have
to face them in the
United States of America.
(audience applauds and cheers)
- In the case of George W. Bush.
he goes to war against
two Muslim countries.
- Our war on terror
begins with Al-Qaeda.
but it does not end there.
- There's no way he
would've been able
to achieve his policy objective
that he dearly wanted.
of going to war in Iraq.
unless he weaponized. you know.
that kind of fear against
Muslims after 9/11.
- This buildup after 9/11
and the uncertainty
is all a part
of a gigantic
anti-Muslim campaign.
Divide the country.
and that lays the
groundwork to be able
to go in and attack Iraq.
- My dad and I would
always talk politics.
and we were very pro Iraq War.
We'd say very horrible
things about Muslims
and Muslim countries.
- The reason that Islam.
as it's constituted today.
is a terrorist organization is
because the theology
feeds the terrorism.
- [Commenter] I'll
tell you what you do.
you racially profile.
- The Republican strategist
and conservative media.
like. didn't give
a fuck about. like.
the impact on
Muslim citizens'. like.
day-to-day lives. right?
And. like. whether their
overheated rhetoric was having
a real negative impact on them.
- We're facing an enemy.
the Islamofascist movement.
It is Hitler in a headscarf.
- And I can. you know.
even say from being in
that world. at that time.
you know. that was
an eyeopening thing.
- [Caller] I am not gonna
stop until I have executed
at least 10 Muslims.
You have no right
to be in this country.
- [Reporter] In Ohio today.
another mosque vandalized.
Saturday. a Pakistani
Muslim shot dead in Dallas.
And in Arizona. a gas
station owner shot and killed.
Not an Arab or a
Muslim. but an Indian Sikh.
His temple fears anyone
who even looks like America's
new enemy is a target.
- The ultimate threat
is the possibility
of their succeeding and getting.
say. a biological agent
or a nuclear weapon.
smuggling it into
the United States.
into one of our own cities.
and raising the specter
of being able to kill hundreds
of thousands of Americans.
- Presently. the
nation currently stands
in the yellow condition.
in elevated risk.
- There was a color chart.
We're at orange today.
No. no. we're at brown.
- Raised terror alert level.
Government saying we are
now at orange. That's high alert.
- To increase that threat
condition designation
to the high risk category.
- Explosive claims
from Tom Ridge.
the country's first secretary
of homeland security.
In a new book. Ridge
accuses top advisors
to George W. Bush
of playing politics
with America's fear of terrorism
before the 2004 election.
- [Reporter] Ridge
claims he felt pressure
to raise the country's terror
alert level during the run-up
to the 2004 elections.
- [Reporter] The episode
left him disillusioned.
He tendered his resignation
within a month of the election.
- It was perpetual
fear. manufactured fear.
manufactured anxiety.
manufactured instability.
And the only person
and the only regime
that can bring you stability
and security was who?
George W. Bush
and the Republicans.
- [Crowd] Republican.
Republican. Republican. Republican!
- Now to the Barack Obama story.
After months of speculation.
the freshman senator
from Illinois says. yes.
he does want to be the next
president of the United States.
- A Newsweek poll shows that 12%
of America believes
that you're a Muslim.
and 26% believe you were
raised in a Muslim home.
A lot of misinformation.
- His religious background
scares me to death.
- I won't vote for the man
just because he's Muslim.
- Muslims as a people
were so viciously demonized
for years and years after 9/11
that it makes a twisted
amount of sense
that the birtherism lie
about Obama portrayed him
as a secret Muslim.
- Then they get President
B. Hussein Obama in there.
and he has massive majorities-
- So why do you keeping saying
the B. Hussein Obama?
- in the House and Senate.
- Well. that's his name.
- I know.
- It's shocking-
- It's also Barack Obama.
- that he's probably going
to be our next president.
President Hussein.
- When you've got a name
like Barack Hussein Obama.
that's not a normal
American name. okay?
- I was working at the
Republican National Committee.
and I would approve our mailers.
It's the little mailings
we send out to old people
so they give five bucks.
You know. they can be part
of the RNC Platinum Club
if they join.
And they would call him
Barack Hussein Obama.
And I had a general
policy of. like.
I would always
cross out Hussein.
Like. there's no point in
including Hussein Obama
except for a racial dog whistle.
I got called into the
RNC chief of staff's office.
and the chief of staff's like.
"What's the
problem. like. here?"
And I said. "Well. we don't
use Hussein in our PR stuff."
And they're like.
"Well. this stuff works.
Like. this is how. you
know. we get more money in.
I accept your objection.
but we're just
gonna keep doing it."
- Tell me he's
American. No. he is not.
- They don't wanna
claim American.
They want to be
African American.
Well. I want people
that wanna be American.
- I'm afraid if he wins.
the black will take over.
- For a lot of
white communities.
the idea that there could be
a black president
was so impossible.
so foreign that it almost
acted like an alarm.
An alarm bell when it went off.
- [Interviewer] Are you ready
to have a black man president?
- No. no. no.
- I don't think we're ready
for a black president yet.
- It's not necessarily because
of anything Obama did.
It's what that visually meant
to so many of those. you know.
white voters for whom an
Obama was an impossibility.
you know. in their imaginations.
- And CNN can now project
that Barack Obama. 47 years old.
will become the president-elect
of the United States.
- I had the honor of calling
Senator Barack Obama
to congratulate him.
- Boo!
- Please.
- Come down!
- You get the hope
that Obama represents.
but also the fact that this
black man has ascended
to the White House.
So it deepens racial divisions.
(dramatic music)
- Obama and his wife.
I'm concerned that
they could be anti-white.
- And you get
this census report.
which says that
America's fast becoming
a majority-minority nation.
- The Census Bureau
has long predicted
that whites would drop
below 50% of the population
by the year 2050.
This new data suggests that
shift could come far sooner.
- And that
statistical data point
is embodied in the fact that
we just elected a black man
to the White House.
- When the census
report comes out.
this sent shockwaves
through the country.
but certainly through
the white community.
- It was the personification
of what they were afraid of.
of a country that was
no longer run by whites.
- [Protestors] Arrest
Obama. Arrest Obama.
- This is why you see the
rise of gun sales in this time.
The rise of militias.
The rise of these
politicians really preying
on having this black
man in the White House.
You're not safe. and
I'm here to keep you safe.
- Right before
Obama took office.
the economy crashed. and
he inherited a massive problem
that he was gonna have to solve.
- This morning.
Wall Street begins
the day holding its breath.
The Dow plunge more
than 500 points yesterday.
- [Reporter] The Dow taking
another breathtaking nose dive.
- All hell breaks loose. right?
And the nature of that
hell. right. takes many forms.
The one that's most
obvious is the Tea Party.
- And across the country today.
thousands of people
protested over the tax system.
demonstrating
against what they call
big government spending.
These self-styled Tea
Parties were aimed squarely
at President Obama and the
democratic leaders in Congress.
- What the real grievance was.
was summarized by Rick
Santelli with that original soundbite
from the floor of the
Chicago Board of Trade.
- How about this. President.
new administration?
Why don't you put up a website
to have people vote on
the internet as a referendum
to see if we really wanna
subsidize the losers' mortgages?
- They're replacing
hardworking people like me
with somebody who
doesn't deserve it.
who's gonna get money
from the government.
- This is America.
How many of you people wanna pay
for your neighbor's mortgage
that has an extra bathroom
and can't pay their bills?
Raise their hand.
How about we all- - Boo.
- President Obama.
are you listening?
We're thinking of having a
Chicago Tea Party in July.
All you capitalists that wanna
show up to Lake Michigan.
I'm gonna start organizing.
- [Reporter] Hundreds
of Tea Parties planned
in every single state.
- This is highly promoted
by the right-wing
conservative network. Fox.
- We were one of
the only organizations
to give it any publicity or PR
prior to the fact
that it happened.
- The thing I think
that at the time.
a lot of people in my shoes.
which is in. like. you know.
a white Republican
consultant's shoes.
is we really did
convince ourselves
that the Tea Party was
legitimate grievance
about government spending.
- It's a false accusation
that Tea Party
Americans are racist.
- The people that are involved
in the Tea Party movement
and other grassroots
organization across the country.
Susan. they're not racist.
- And I think this is an
example of our own naivete
and wishful thinking. right.
and compartmentalization
and all those tricks
that you do to yourself.
- Tired of hearing
about the black colleges.
I'm tired of hearing
black. black. black.
- We can encapsulate it as
communist Kenyan Muslim.
- Yes.
- Clearly. now. with the
benefit of hindsight. like.
the Tea Party was a
racial grievance uprising
against the first
black president.
- If you think about
a literal dog whistle.
it's a whistle
used to train dogs.
It blows at a very
high frequency.
Human ears can't
hear it. but dogs can.
So as a metaphor
for political speech.
it's directing our
attention to speech
that's also working
on two levels.
On one level. silent about race.
but on the other. triggering
strong racist reactions.
So think about terms
like welfare queen.
illegal alien. thugs.
gang bangers.
These are terms that on their
surface are silent about race.
They don't mention race at all.
And yet. if you pay
attention to the mental images
that come to mind
with these terms.
you can understand the
racial power they have.
- The Barack Obama
administration is actively seeking
to expand the welfare
state in this country.
- You know. you
have Newt Gingrich
on Fox calling him the
food stamps president.
- Unconditional efforts by
the best food stamp president
in American history to
maximize dependency.
- Newt Gingrich penned
it pretty well when he said
that President Obama is
the food stamp president.
- He was just seen as.
like. this avatar of. you know.
everything that's
bad about liberals.
and things like this are
just thrown onto him.
- The idea was that
it wasn't just Obama.
but everything that Obama
touched that became racialized.
- When Obama gets 95% of
the black vote. is that racist?
He is creating a racial divide.
- This president I think has
exposed himself as a guy.
over and over and over again.
who has a deep-seated
hatred for white people
or the white culture.
- So all of a sudden.
the Democratic Party
healthcare became racialized.
- [Protestors] Kill
the bill. kill the bill.
kill my bill. kill the bill!
- Rush Limbaugh has declared
that the president's
healthcare reform package
is a civil rights bill and
constitutes reparations.
- This is returning the
nation's wealth to its.
quote. unquote.
"rightful owners."
This is a civil rights bill.
This is reparations.
whatever you want to call it.
- And then you
have this controversy
over there's a government
program for low-income people.
giving them phones.
because you can't do
anything without a phone.
And so this clip is
always passed around
of this African-American
lady saying.
"I'm gonna get. like.
an Obama phone."
- Everybody in Cleveland
who's a minority got
an Obama phone.
Keep Obama in president.
you know. He gave us a phone.
- You've seen the YouTube
of the Obama phone woman.
How you gonna get a free phone?
Well. you gotta vote for Obama.
You gotta be on food stamps.
- No one deserves a free phone.
- If you're unemployed.
you've got welfare.
you've got food stamps.
you've got subsidized housing.
you've got free phones.
you've got free healthcare.
You're better off
unemployed than working.
Isn't that what
this is all about?
- [Protestor] It means
Obama thinks he's a king.
- Obama runs for
reelection in 2012.
and again. you see his opponents
focus on where he is from
and whether he's Muslim.
- No one's ever asked
to see my birth certificate.
They know that this is the place
that we were born and raised.
(audience cheers and applauds)
- I would get phone calls
from Fox headquarters.
They would call me up to
say. "Look. this whole business
with the birth
certificate with Obama.
you know. what
do you got for us?"
And I would say. "Look.
he says he's got
a birth certificate.
and he has a birth certificate.
Until such a time anybody
can prove that he doesn't.
I got nothing to say."
And they would pass it off
to some show host
or something like that.
- Tonight. we've
assembled an all-star panel
to do a critical analysis
of the president's
birth certificate.
- I believe that he is a Muslim.
- You do?
- Yes.
- [Host] How many of
you believe that here?
- [Participant] Yes. he is.
- [Participant]
How many believe?
- He doesn't have
a birth certificate.
Now. he may have one.
but there's something
on that birth cert.
Maybe religion. Maybe
it says he's a Muslim.
- You know. that
doesn't embarrass me
if people call me a birther.
When we're finished
with this interview.
I'll show you some YouTubes.
You know. YouTubes
are infallible.
(air whooshes)
- Another four years
for President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.
They win reelection
in the electoral college.
They're winning the
popular vote right now.
- Latinos for the first
time in our nation's history
in double digits nationally.
And look at that. the
president winning even more
of the Latino vote than
he did four years ago.
71%.
This is a crisis for
the Republican Party
on the national
level. going forward.
- Barack Obama won
the presidency again
and. you know. obliterated
this white candidate.
- The two big questions
for Republicans tonight:
What went wrong? And
where do they go from here?
- And suddenly. the
Republican Party realized.
"Oh my goodness.
we really have failed to.
you know. appeal to
communities of color."
- We cannot be a party
of just white people.
That's not gonna cut it.
- And so they published
an autopsy report.
And it was this
breathtakingly honest report
that talked about the
Republican Party's failure
to do outreach in
communities of color.
among Hispanics.
among black Americans.
and other marginalized groups.
- Many minorities think that
Republicans don't like them
or don't want
them in our country.
- The report's presented.
and it makes national news.
- Focus groups called
the party narrow-minded.
out of touch. and
stuffy. old men.
- We made it very clear.
We urged Republican leadership
to lead on immigration reform.
We felt comprehensive
immigration reform was needed.
There was great interest
in it at the political level.
- Virtually every group that's
looked at immigration reform.
except for one.
has said that immigration
reform would be a net positive
for the economy
of the United States.
- The GOP now is
officially supporting
comprehensive
immigration reform.
something that's been
very. very controversial
in the GOP for years.
- There was this historic
bipartisan immigration reform bill
in 2013 and '14.
There was John McCain.
Lindsey Graham. Marco Rubio.
along with a number
of Democrats working
for immigration reform.
- A huge bill on
Capitol Hill today.
The Senate about to vote
on a massive
immigration reform bill.
- The GOP leadership
wanted immigration reform
to broaden their racial appeal.
But the far right of the
party. they opposed it.
- Stephen Miller and Steve
Bannon were working concertedly
with Breitbart to attack
the immigration reform bill
by whipping up hysteria
about the immigration issue
and whipping up
white racial anxiety.
- The autopsy
comes out and says.
"This whole thing's
blamed on we didn't.
you know. get the Hispanic vote.
And what we have
to do is have amnesty
and all these types of...
We have to basically concede
to Democratic policies."
And at the same time. this
guy named Sean Trende.
who's a lawyer. writes
a two or three-part series
for RealClearPolitics.
- I heard Barack Obama
make the comment.
"You guys have to
appeal to non-white voters
or you'll never win
another election."
I just thought that's not right.
So I wrote this
column about. actually.
if the GOP could figure out a
way to appeal to white voters
and increase their
vote share there.
they could more
than offset their losses
among non-white voters.
And so that's the idea
of the missing whites.
- And so Trende's thing
was quite interesting to me.
about the whole white
working class element of it.
and how. really. both
parties had abandoned it.
It was pretty obvious to me.
It kind of reinforced
what I felt.
- There were a lot of
white voters out there
that were gettable for the GOP.
that. for whatever reason.
the Republicans weren't
pulling them to the polls.
- [Interviewer] So you
come out with this strategy.
how do people
respond to it publicly?
- Oh. they hated it.
- I had a dinner with Jeff
Sessions and Stephen Miller.
Senator Sessions.
let's say this.
had a few bourbon
and branches. okay?
A lot.
And we go through those policies
that we believe
strongly is what's needed
to drive the Republican
Party to actually start
to get a electoral majority.
- And they went over some
election analysis by John Trende.
and they interpreted
this analysis to mean
that they could launch
a popular movement.
- [Interviewer] How
did the three of you.
what's your game plan to push
back on immigration reform?
- We have to stop it now.
We know something's
gonna come up that year.
- If this were to pass.
wages would go down.
unemployment would go up.
- We knew we had to stop it.
We had to stop it legislatively.
and we thought we could stop it.
- [Interviewer]
- Well. first off. there
were articles every day.
There was everybody
on radio shows and TV.
We really pushed the thing out.
- We should be taking
immigrants who are better than us.
not worse than us.
But instead of
skimming the cream.
we are scraping the
bottom of the barrel.
taking care of other
countries' internal problems.
Taking their terrorists. their
losers. their poor people.
- I had a phone interview
with Steve Bannon in 2014.
I was walking around
Barnes & Noble in Lynchburg.
and he was just firing
off questions. like he does.
And he said. "What's your
perspective on education?"
And I would just
deliver. you know.
the true believer
conservative lines.
And then he said. "What do
you think about immigration?"
All I said was. "It
affects everything."
He was so excited and
enthused by that answer.
he yelled. "Yes!"
And I heard him
through the phone.
I actually pulled
it away a little bit.
Like. okay. he's really
excited about that.
And I was hired like that.
- We kind of put
a network together
of people that just continued
to put out more and
more information.
Look. our whole thing is
if you put out information
and you have force
multipliers to just drive it.
people will start to
absorb it themselves.
- It's the servant class
that is coming in who-
- But we're losing workers.
- taxpayers need to support.
- For everyone
who's a valedictorian.
there's another 100 out there
that they weigh 130 pounds.
and they've got calves
the sides of cantaloupes
because they're hauling
75 pounds of marijuana
across the desert.
- I mean. it's the.
what do they say?
You know. the Russian
active measures.
It's. you know. lying
through a fire hose.
I mean. you're just
overwhelmed by the lies.
- A lot of the people coming
into the country are working
for drug cartels.
A lot of the people have
wreaked havoc upon communities.
- The strategy was
to take reactionary.
racist feelings
against immigrants.
you know. non-white immigrants.
and to present it to the base
as a political choice made
by elites who betrayed you.
the working white man.
- [Critic] Do you realize. we're
the second-class citizens?
You secure that
border to protect us.
- As if we were being deluged
by a wave of
non-white immigrants.
- You're gonna have a
flood of new immigrants
into the United States.
- They're invading. they're
murdering. they're raping.
- As one officer said.
a tidal wave of new
illegality in the future.
- And that successfully
turned public opinion
against immigration.
- This country is being
invaded by foreigners
with diseases and crime.
- These are gonna be
more jobs taken away.
- Letting Muslims
come across the border.
They are finding
Qurans on the ground.
- When I hear. "Let's go
after the missing white voter."
I start to think. "Oh Lord."
- There's an
article in the nation
where one of their editors
called me a white supremacist.
A lot of people
took the suggestion
that this is a path that
the GOP could take.
as me basically
calling for the GOP
to be the party of white people.
and that's absolutely
not what I wanted.
It was kind of an
academic exercise.
I'm just saying. if you wanna
look at the cold calculus
of electoral politics. it
works out a little different
than I think a lot
of people expect.
So it was. like. in 2013
when I was getting all
these attacks. I thought.
"Wouldn't it be great in 2016
if a candidate came along
and did this and
proved me right?"
And then the monkey's
paw finger curled.
because I did not
have Donald Trump
or anyone like him in mind.
And he came and
kind of took the strategy
and put it on steroids.
- [Donald] I'm Donald Trump.
and you're watching
"Fox & Friends."
And if you turn the
channel. you're fired.
- Everyone knows
Trump built an image
of himself via "The Apprentice."
But I believe it was Fox
that was more important
to his political rise.
- Does he have
the power to fire me
in this company?
- Brian. you're fired.
- I guess he doesn't.
- Any further questions?
- Yeah. I guess not.
- Get out.
- Because he was given
by Roger Ailes a weekly slot
on "Fox & Friends."
- You could say that Trump
is the candidate "Fox
& Friends" invented.
(bell ringing)
- I do now.
- Worked out well.
Who's at the door?
Oh look. it's Donald Trump.
Come on in. Mr. Trump.
- [Host] Donald Trump in person.
Every Monday is a
Donald Trump Monday.
but now in person
for one reason:
He hasn't seen Steve
and I in a long time.
- Yeah.
- A long time.
A long time.
- Nice to see you.
Donald Trump.
- He became the GOP
nominee in waiting
because of those weekly
appearances on Fox.
and portrayed himself as
the savior. as the protector.
as the one billionaire
who would save them.
- That's 'cause of you guys.
Donald Trump gets
up in the morning.
tweets to the entire
planet at no cost.
picks up the phone. calls you.
has a great conversation
for about eight minutes.
which would've cost him a
ton in commercial money.
- When Mexico sends its people.
they're not sending their best.
They're not sending you.
They're sending people
that have lots of problems.
- Trump was leaning
into the culture war.
He understood how
the people were reacting.
what they were resonating to.
The immigration
was the first one.
- They're bringing drugs.
they're bringing crime.
They're rapists.
And some. I assume.
are good people.
- Political people said.
"Oh. those are very
bad things to say.
That doesn't resonate
with the people."
They missed the boat on that.
That absolutely
resonated with people.
People said. "This guy's
got it. He's absolutely right."
So they wanted to hear more.
- He says what I'm thinking.
- [Participant] Exactly.
- Never been
involved in politics.
Never had an
interest in any of it.
Now. suddenly. he is resonating.
He is resonating
with the people.
and he's speaking our minds.
- He's resonating
with the people.
I've been following
his campaign.
and he's resonating
with the people.
Look at the people.
- [Rick] You would go. and
the people were cheering
like it was some famous
musician coming on stage.
And instead. Trump came
up and he attacked people.
- ISIS is honoring
President Obama.
He is the founder of ISIS.
He's the founder of ISIS. okay?
He's the founder.
He founded ISIS.
- [Rick] And it was almost
like this underlying sentiment
among the American people.
- I want surveillance of
certain mosques. okay?
If that's okay.
- And here's a guy that's
just telling into it plain.
He's not sugarcoating it.
He's using. you
know. abusive words.
whatever you wanna call it.
- Like to punch him
in the face. I'll tell you.
- I met Trump at WrestleMania V.
I'd always been at WrestleMania.
I'd always been a
wrestling WWE fan.
and then through Roger Stone.
was reporting directly to
him. working under Roger.
- Any guy that can do a
body slam. he's my guy.
(audience cheering)
- [Audience] USA. USA!
- We have a movement going.
We have something very special.
- He'd call me. and he's like.
"There's a movement. Sam.
I feel it. It's electrifying.
They love it.
Everyone loves it."
- It was electric to be a
part of one of his rallies.
It really was. It was amazing.
You feel a certain
fellowship and camaraderie
with people who have
like-minded thoughts.
you know. and desires.
And yeah. it was
wonderful. It was amazing.
- It's called "The Snake."
I thought of it having
to do with our borders
and people coming in.
- It was patriotic.
That's all I can say.
He told "The Snake"
poem. and it was wonderful.
- "Oh. shut up. silly woman."
said the reptile with a grin.
"You knew damn
well I was a snake
before you took me in."
- We did some polling
on immigration early on.
and the numbers actually
weren't as supportive
in favor of Trump
as you might think.
It was. do you support
blocking immigration?
Just general across the board.
And people were
very reticent to do that
because they felt that was
impinging on the American dream.
However. if you
rephrase the question.
would you support
a ban on immigration
if it results in you
losing your job.
healthcare costs going up?
So when we started reframing
it. people were like. "Whoa."
Even legal immigrants
were. "We don't want this.
We don't want illegal
immigrants in our country.
We're very much
in favor of Trump."
- They're taking our jobs.
They're taking our manufacturing.
They're taking our money.
They're taking everything.
and they're killing
us on the border.
- What the Trump
campaign was saying
about immigrants.
jobs. and healthcare.
it was a complete distortion.
But again. the point
was racial manipulation.
- I was communicating
with Stephen Miller
while he was on
the Trump campaign.
while my Twitter
feed was very active.
very racist. very anti-Islam.
and while I was writing
racist articles for Breitbart.
We are in communication.
and we're both expressing
pro-Trump sentiments
with my company Breitbart email.
and there is no
problem with this.
Breitbart. in my view.
defacto advertising arm
of the Trump campaign.
(grim music)
And there was no real
intervention from management at all.
- I think the tone of
these discussions matter
when you are using
them as wedge issues.
as Republicans have done now.
It's different.
And it's really intended
not to solve a social
problem of borders.
but it's about stirring
up racial animus.
- White Americans
founded this country.
but we are being pushed aside
because of the present
administration and the media.
the liberal media.
- I want to feel
safe in our country.
and I don't feel
safe anywhere I go.
- So when we're talking
this whole conversation
and I say. you know. so I say.
"They're all gonna talk
about border security.
You gotta talk
about building a wall.
You know what I mean?
We're gonna come in with a wall.
This is a marriage between
your business. your brand.
It's like a real
estate deal. right?"
- I will build a great. great
wall on our southern border.
- And I said. "And then you
say you'll get the Mexicans
to pay for it 'cause
they're stealing from us."
- And I will have
Mexico pay for that wall.
Mark my words.
- Yeah! Yeah!
- So then he said. "I'll
make it a real estate deal."
That's right. It's like
a real estate deal.
And he goes. "And
nobody builds like Trump."
- Nobody builds walls
better than me. Believe me.
- Nobody builds like
Trump. He loves that line.
- We're gonna make
America great again.
and we're gonna keep
winning. winning. winning.
- Now. when they say.
"What did Make America
Great Again mean?"
It meant if you want to
compare it to something.
it meant Bill O'Reilly 8:00 PM.
It meant the culture war.
It meant keeping
America's. you know. history.
- And I guarantee. if
I become president.
we're gonna be saying
Merry Christmas at every store.
We're not gonna be doing.
(audience cheers)
- Remember Barack
Obama said change?
No. we don't want change.
That change is shit.
for a lot of reasons.
- We're not allowed to
punch back anymore.
I love the old days.
You know what they
used to do to guys like that
when they were
in a place like this?
They'd be carried out
in a stretcher. folks.
- [Interviewer] Why do you
think Trump plays culture wars
instead of old-school
Republican stories.
lower taxes. small government?
- 'Cause that shit's boring.
and we're not gonna win. Okay?
We're not gonna
win. I'll tell you why.
'Cause we're not
gonna win. It's boring.
- I'll tell you what.
that is one thing I really
respect about Trump.
He speaks his mind.
He says what's on his mind.
and we're in his best
interest when he does.
- Policy. straight up
policy. that's Mitt Romney.
Okay? It ain't winning.
- He's not so uptight.
Everything's gotta be PC.
- I think he had to break
through all the
nonsense by being blunt.
- [Interviewer] Were you
comfortable with how much
of that white voter
anger resentment model
you guys did in the
Trump administration?
- Well. when we looked
at the white voter model
in the Trump
administration. again.
we broke it down multiple ways.
- [Interviewer] But were
you comfortable with it?
- Absolutely. Yeah.
Because from a political
consultant's standpoint.
remember. you're trying to
get every vote imaginable.
I don't care where
the votes come from.
I need to make sure
that the candidate's messages
are focusing on those people.
And so look. if Trump's
messages. as an example.
had focused more on black issues
and black voters were
our target. so be it.
If that's where he was
aligned. that's what you do.
You take those messages.
and you use them to
encourage supporters
and voters to come
out for your causes.
It's that simple.
And so it doesn't matter
who we're targeting.
We're targeting voters of all
demographics. all persuasions.
because that's how
you win elections.
When you win
elections. you hold power.
- I think a lot of
politicians realized.
"Well. this is playing
the race card a little bit.
but it gets votes.
Let's do it."
It's not. I don't think.
so much racism
in the sense that I want
to harm black people.
It's more like opportunism
in that I see something
that could help me.
so I'm gonna do
it. and I don't care.
- Stephen Miller came
on as speech writer
and senior policy
advisor for Trump.
and he began to use
tactics that are often used
by white supremacist
groups to recruit people.
Things like inserting very
graphic. gory descriptions
of migrant crimes
into Trump's speeches.
- Brutally beaten and
left to bleed to death.
- And into his policy proposals.
For example. the immigration
plan that Trump put out
in 2015 references this
migrant taking a hammer
and bashing in a
woman's eye sockets.
- Beaten to death with a hammer.
- And you got the undesirables
who just come in
and wreck havoc.
So they gotta have
some control over it.
- You're gonna turn on the TV
and see somebody
fight as hard for you
as the other side fights
for illegal immigrants.
- Stephen Miller was introduced
to me right before Trump ran.
and it was with
the understanding
that it wasn't explicitly
written in email.
but Steven would pitch to you.
And what that meant
was Steven would.
you know. tell
you what to write.
It's common for reporters
to receive pitches.
you know. from
politicians' offices.
What is not common is
for a ostensible news site
to receive a press release.
like. as Breitbart did.
ghostwritten by Miller
to put under the byline
of Breitbart News
and to make it the lead
of the Breitbart News website.
- How many children are dead
because of our sanctuary cities?
- When I was in middle school.
my brother was good
friends with Stephen Miller.
And one day.
starting in high school.
Stephen Miller told
most of his friends.
who were mostly brown.
because this was Los Angeles.
"I can't be your friend anymore
because you have a
family of immigrants.
Your family's Mexican. Your
parents don't speak English."
Whatever it was.
I actually have
tried to figure out
the nicest thing I can
say about Stephen Miller.
which is that he didn't hide
behind a computer screen.
He would get up in
front of the whole school.
in an assembly of
thousands of kids.
and literally have things
thrown at him and say.
- Am I the only one who is sick
and tired of being told
to pick up my trash?
And we have plenty of janitors.
We'll make them do it for us.
- He did it for the shock value.
and it made him. you know.
a mini superstar in the
regional conservative media.
- I'll say and I'll do
things that no one else
in their right mind
would say or do.
- In some ways.
I think that made him
valuable to the White House.
He was writing a playbook
that hadn't been written yet.
- Miller is obsessed
with immigration.
and he would email me
after a story was up and say.
and try to. you know.
flatter me. saying.
"It was such a great story.
I told Bannon about this."
And then Bannon would
reply. "This is great.
Katie wrote a great article."
You know. just
things like that to. like.
make a 24-year-old
girl feel better
about the racist
creed she just wrote.
- They. you know. put out the
false migrant crime statistics
that migrants are responsible
for thousands of deaths
in America every year.
- Sadly. people are murdered
all the time by illegals.
as we have detailed
on this program.
- When the reality
is that maybe three
or four deaths a year as a
result of immigrant crimes.
- We're talking about it
because Donald Trump brought
this up as a campaign issue.
- They repeatedly exploited
the death of Kate Steinle.
- Kate Steinle gunned down
in the sanctuary
city of San Francisco.
- A blonde. blue-eyed woman
shot to death in San Francisco
by a immigrant
who was mentally ill
(dramatic music)
and who was later
found not guilty of murder.
- [Reporter] The jury found
Jose Inez Garcia Zarate
not guilty of murder
or manslaughter.
- This story. this
beautiful young woman
who died a tragic death.
it was seized on by
the Trump campaign
(dramatic music)
by Breitbart
to push the
anti-immigrant agenda.
- Kate Steinle.
- 32-year-old Kate Steinle.
- You can take a highly
emotional. horrible story
and take that family's grief
and turn it into a cynical
campaign to gain power
and to demonize immigrants.
- Our hearts broke as
a nation last summer
when Kate Steinle was
murdered in cold blood.
- We had already. you
know. decided as. like.
our own judge
and jury. you know.
that this person was guilty.
(dramatic music)
Therefore. we have to curb
immigration to stop the crime.
to stop our beautiful
young white women.
you know. from being
harmed by immigrants.
(dramatic music)
- [Interviewer]
The Steinle case.
so you would write these stories
and what would people say?
- People would react by
saying. "Justice for Kate Steinle."
almost as a way to
express their anger
at immigration policies that
they weren't even aware of
before the far-right
brought them to
and the Trump campaign
brought them to their attention.
- So I propose Kate's Law.
- The Kate Steinle thing.
we got offered on
the Jeb campaign.
Bill O'Reilly's producer
called and said. "Quid pro quo.
Jeb can come on
the show tonight.
like. if he will support the
Kate's Law or whatever."
- And if Kate's
Law doesn't pass.
then the world will
know which senators
and congresspeople
are truly villainous.
- And as long as he talks
about how important it is
that we have this new law
that cracks down on
illegal immigrant crime.
- To sweep dangerous
foreign nationals here illegally
off the streets of America.
- I kind of think I was
formed doing it. actually.
now that I look back on it.
because. you know.
one cog in the wheel.
Fuck it. Like. Kate's Law. sure.
Like. we'll support Kate's Law.
That'll get him a
hit on Bill O'Reilly.
We're getting our
kicked in the polls.
Like. maybe this will help.
But the policy guys. or
maybe Jeb himself. you know.
said that they didn't support
Kate's Law. for some reason.
I don't even remember
what the particulars are of it.
But. like. this is just
another prime example
of the. like.
conservative media.
like. creating a.
yeah. creating outrage.
creating fear over something.
You know. the voters then
feeling like they should be afraid
of it. and then politicians
feeling like they need
to play into that
as well in order to.
you know. make
the voters like them.
- [Reporter] Aren't you close
to xenophobia?
- No.
- [Reporter] You're talking
about expelling millions
of millions of people.
- We have to clean up the
country. Our country is a mess.
- It's true that Trump
appeals to open races.
but it's a big mistake to
think that Trump's intention is
to create a coalition
of open races.
of skinheads and clan
members and Proud Boys.
That's not what he's doing.
Trump is looking for
language that can scare people
with racist stories. where
those people genuinely believe.
genuinely believe
they're not racist.
- I am the least racist person
that you have ever met.
- Trump is not racist.
- I don't understand how
people can say. you know.
that. you know.
we're racist. we're this.
we're that. we're that.
We don't care. We
welcome everybody.
You know. we're in the
United States of America.
and that's what it's all about.
- Don't ever ever
let anybody tell you
that you are not a good person
because you want
to secure the border.
- They had to persuade
those white voters
who had voted for Barack Obama
and Bill Clinton
not to vote for me
based on all kinds
of attacks that.
you know. lit people up.
- Hillary would let
everybody come in.
Killers. criminals.
drug dealers.
- Fuck Islam. Fuck them.
- The Muslims. the immigrants.
all of that was just
in general designed
to either discourage people
from voting for Democrats.
namely. in 2016. me.
or to switch them to
vote for the Republicans.
- We've gotta be cautious with
these new people coming in.
that we don't get ISIS moving in
and terrorists that
we don't even know.
- Donald J. Trump
is calling for a total
and complete shutdown of
Muslims entering the United States
until our country's
representatives can figure out
what the hell is going on.
- [Interviewer] What about when
he proposed banning Muslims.
were you around for that?
- No. I had talked
to him about doing it.
I said. "When there's
a terrorist attack.
and there will be domestically.
because they're
already attacking us.
you know. the ISIS and
everything. propose a Muslim ban.
Propose something."
And he goes to me. "Why
don't you fucking propose that?
You want me to get killed?
You want me to get killed?"
I'd even thought about...
We had such sick shit.
I never told him this.
but I'd even
thought about. like.
claiming that. like.
the cartel leaders.
we had to stop a plot for the
cartel leaders to kidnap him
during the campaign. I thought
it would help us politically.
- The point at which I
decided I could no longer be
a registered
Republican was during
the Republican Convention.
when Trump was being nominated.
and following the
Republican Convention.
he went after the mother of a
Muslim soldier who was killed.
- If you look at his wife.
she was standing there.
She had nothing to say.
Maybe she wasn't allowed
to have anything to say.
You tell me.
- I thought. "This
is not my party.
How are we letting
this man be nominated?
Why is no one in
leadership speaking out
and saying that's wrong?"
Most people look the other
way to preserve their own power.
- Donald Trump will
be the 45th president
of the United States.
winning the most unreal.
surreal election
we have ever seen.
- Sorry to keep you waiting.
Complicated
business. Complicated.
- With Trump in
particular. he realized.
"You know what? I
don't have to be subtle.
My base loves it.
We can manufacture the
villain. and they'll eat it up.
Hell. I became president of it.
So when Charlottesville happens.
I don't have to
condemn the Nazis."
- We're following breaking
news out of Virginia.
The governor has declared
a state of emergency
in Charlottesville after
white supremacist protests
turned violent in that town.
- I talked to Trump that day.
He called me.
and I explained to him what
I had seen on the ground.
what I had heard.
And he says. "Terry. what
do you want me to do?"
I said. "Mr. President.
this is your moment."
And I said. "Let me be very
clear. You gotta come out.
You need to condemn the
white supremacists who are here.
Call them out by name.
that white supremacy is
not acceptable behavior.
And you need to call
out the neo-Nazis."
He said. "Okay. I'll do it."
Great. Felt pretty good.
I waited. I waited. I waited.
I waited four hours to
do my press conference.
But I wanted the
president to speak
'cause. you know. he
has the biggest bully pulpit.
and he can. you
know. bring us together
if he says the right words.
And he didn't.
He came out and said there
were good people on both sides.
- You also had people
that were very fine people
on both sides.
- Know exactly what happened.
He agreed with me on the phone.
Yes. Terry. I'll come out
and say that. Great. terrific.
So what happened
in those four hours?
Was it Bannon? Was it Miller?
Somebody in the
White House got to him
and said. "No. sir.
No. you will not condemn
neo-Nazis and white supremacists
because these are wedge issues
to drive out their voters."
And he wasn't gonna do anything
that would offend
any of his voters.
- We crafted a
statement in that example.
and he marked it up.
Didn't like some of the
soft language you used.
Wanted to use harder language.
- I think there's
blame on both sides.
and I have no doubt about it.
and you don't have
any doubt about it. either.
- The number of enemies
that the right is
putting up on the board.
You know. if you don't
feel right about not.
you know. being. you
know. nice to black people.
and maybe you've got
immigrants working for you.
well then. let's find
another target that you can.
you know. be upset about.
And. of course. if you're
an Asian American.
maybe you brought COVID over.
so. you know. yell at them.
- The Wuhan virus.
- They called it
the Chinese virus.
the Wuhan virus. the kung flu.
- I can name kung flu. Kung flu.
- This China virus.
- President continues to
call this the Chinese virus.
- It is. It came from China.
- The problem with
calling it the China virus
is then people associate any
Chinese person with the virus.
- Hate crimes against
Asian Americans spiking
since the pandemic
began a year ago.
- And then it became
shocking in the violence.
- Tonight. Attorney General
Merrick Garland pointing
to an alarming rise
in violent attacks
against Asian Americans.
- I was attacked on the
street near Columbia at night.
- [Reporter] Nearly 3.800
anti-Asian hate incidents
from March 2020 through
February have been reported.
- There's always
been hate movements
in American politics. right?
I mean. you go back
to Father Coughlin.
- I challenge every
Jew in this nation.
- And the Klan. I
mean. there's tons.
What's different about this
moment is that anger and hate
and grievance has been
adopted as fundamentally true
to a major American
political party.
the Republican Party.
That hasn't happened
before. Not in our lifetime.
- Donald Trump woke us up.
They have awakened a
sleeping giant with a terrible result.
- The Republican Party.
this isn't an aberration
of the Republican party.
It is a racially driven
grievance party.
and it's comfortable
with being that.
I would love to believe
that Liz Cheney's the future
of the Republican Party.
It's not.
Marjorie Taylor
Greene is the future
of the Republican Party.
- Joe Biden's 5
million illegal aliens are
on the verge of replacing you.
replacing your jobs. and
replacing your kids in school.
- You can achieve power
by opening Pandora's box.
but it's dangerous. right?
So I think the
generation of politicians
who did have that living memory
of the Nazi experience
in World War II
and the acres and acres of blood
that were caused by demagogues
who were unleashing
the fears of the public.
they understood that there
was power to be gained from that.
but that it has to be
used very judiciously.
The fascinating thing
about Donald Trump
is he completely flips over
that whole game board.
and he turns the dog
whistle into the train whistle.
It would've been
impossible for him to do this
without kind of the
ground being laid
by 55 years of
Republican dog whistling.
- We will also be a
country of law and order.
(audience cheers and applauds)
- Trump dusted off
the Nixon machine.
and he did a software
upgrade. rebooted it.
and ran it in 2016.
- We need to restore
respect for law
and order in the United
States of America.
- I actually was part
of a program at
Wellesley College.
and my professors
assigned me to work
for the Republican House
Conference Committee.
I remember going
to Nixon's speech
once he got nominated
in the summer of 1968.
and I thought it was very dark.
- We see Americans hating
each other. fighting each other.
killing each other at home.
- Looking back now. you
can see all of the trend lines
that he was pulling together.
- If we fail in the
battle against crime.
then we fail not only ourselves.
but our heritage and
the future of our children.
- I am your president
of law and order.
- Law and order.
- The video of an officer
with his knee on Floyd's neck
as Floyd pleads for his
life has shocked Americans.
- In recent days. our
nation has been gripped
by professional anarchists.
violent mobs. arsonists.
looters. criminals.
rioters. Antifa. and others.
- [Reporter] Washington. DC.
besieged by peaceful protests.
unified in the message painted
on the road below their feet:
Black Lives Matter.
- George Floyd's death happens
in a context of the pandemic.
We're all stuck at home.
We can't go anywhere.
We all watch it together.
And there's something about that
that not only sparks kind of
this large global movement.
but also sparks something
else within a subtext
of this constituency that
is deeply antagonistic
towards questions of race.
- Stop the nonsense.
These are killers.
and these are people
who hate white people.
They're people who hate
white men in particular.
- Black Lives Matter. you know.
and the domestic terrorists
posing as protestors.
AKA Antifa.
- There was some violence
at Black Lives Matter protests.
to be sure. but research
shows the overwhelming majority
of the protests were
entirely peaceful.
- A peaceful Black Lives
Matter protest was held overnight.
- Very peaceful here today.
- To peacefully protest
the death of George Floyd.
- How many innocent Americans
have these people hurt?
How many have they murdered?
We don't know that number.
- When you say Black Lives
Matter. that's inherently racist.
- First time I ever heard of
Black Lives Matter. I said.
"That's a terrible name.
It's so discriminatory.
It's bad for black people.
It's bad for everybody."
- I first really started hearing
and listening to Black
Lives Matter last summer.
Summer of 2020.
- The president calls it a
Marxist organization. I do. too.
- Black Lives Matter doesn't
really care about black lives.
- I don't believe that Black
Lives Matter really cares
about black lives.
- [Reporter] Holding
a high-powered rifle
and wielding a pistol in
these now viral images.
Mark and Patricia
McCloskey looked ready
for a gunfight as
a protest moved
through their mansion-lined
St. Louis neighborhood.
- Get the hell out
of my neighborhood!
- They were charged on
Monday with gun crimes.
placing those protestors
in fear of injury.
And the protesters. by all
reports. were quite peaceful.
- George Floyd was
murdered. let's say.
by a white policeman. okay?
I said this on television
a couple weeks ago.
When a cop kills a thug.
we're supposed to
change the world over it.
But we have this
national outrage allegedly
because George Floyd was
killed by a policeman. okay?
And that's discrimination.
- Calm down.
(protester drowned
out by drumming)
- They thought they
needed to defend themselves
by taking up arms. as if they
themselves were under threat.
when it's the racist story
that's really doing
the violence here.
- The McCloskeys
standing out on their lawns
with rifles shown was
definitely a symbol for me.
It was a symbol that we
are going to have to stand up
for our rights.
- [Reporter] Mark McCloskey
will be among the speakers
at next week's Republican
National Convention.
- No matter where you live.
your family will not be safe.
- I mean. Richard Nixon
was simplistic compared
to what we've got now.
- The mob. spurred on
by their allies in the media.
will try to destroy you.
- These people play for keeps.
They wanna work hand in
hand with their media outlets.
now their social media outlets.
and they think
they're on the brink
of being very successful.
- The path to power here.
what we're gonna do is
that you have to start
at the school board level.
- Republican Glenn Youngkin
has been elected
governor of Virginia.
- [Reporter] Youngkin
targeting the fury
over critical race theory.
which is not taught
in Virginia schools.
but the issue becoming a
lightning rod for conservatives.
- I helped behind the scenes
in the Youngkin
campaign in Virginia.
The education was
the cultural war issue.
It was the issue
that was divisive.
It drove people to
anger and frustration.
and that's motivated
them to come out and vote.
They brought crying moms.
They brought crying
children up to the stage.
They used that as a campaign
issue to leverage that position
and to win that
governorship. and he did.
- The moms of America.
many of whom
will spit on the floor
at the sound of Donald
Trump's name. okay.
are our natural allies in this.
- We are an army of moms
and parents that will
not stop until we're heard.
- [Protestor] Hey
man. no critical race.
- Critical race theory
is American history.
no. it's Marxist history.
intended to
deconstruct and divide.
- It's all strategy.
Look. I mean.
critical race theory
is truly taught
only in law schools.
- I directed the Florida
Department of Education
to prohibit critical
race theory.
- It's a way of thinking about
how the legal system helped
to support and
enforce segregation.
- Critical race
theory is anti-white.
and it's not American.
- This language about
critical race theory.
you didn't have to
know what it was.
It just had the
language critical. race.
and theory in there.
Those three words then
became a powerful dog whistle.
- The Biden administration
is pushing toxic
critical race theory
and illegal discrimination
into our children's schools.
- What happens specifically now.
specifically what
we're dealing with
in a post-George-Floyd world.
where there was mass protests
against the murder
of George Floyd.
and people are like.
"You know what?
We need to do a little
bit more for diversity.
for equity. and for inclusion.
You know what. we
need to have more people
of color speak out.
You know what. we know we need
to read a little bit more
books by black authors
'cause it's the
reality we live in."
And this makes some
people uncomfortable.
It's not a perfect science.
- This is a racist.
vile. and evil ideology
that has infected this
once-great school district.
- So with CRT.
they're like. "Aha!
What we can do is we
can take parental concern
over some of these
books that are being taught
with diversity.
equity. and inclusion.
and we can
manufacture a villain."
- Good propaganda is always
wrapped in a seed of truth.
You know. you
take one little truth
that you can kind of
put up on the pedestal.
and then you wrap all
this bullshit around it.
- This is reeducation.
This is indoctrination
of our children.
And it is so destructive.
the only way I can
truly describe it is evil.
- I think critical
race theory is wrong.
and I don't think it should
be taught in schools at all.
- What I've discovered is
that critical race theory
has become. in essence.
the default ideology of
the federal bureaucracy.
and is now being weaponized
against the American people.
- With the mass
mandates particularly.
then the vaccine
mandates. and then CRT.
and how CRT and social-emotional
learning. SEL. exploded.
That was a galvanizing.
organizing principal at
the school board level
and galvanized the
American parents.
- School officials tell me
this was the largest group
they've ever had attend
a school board meeting.
- Just because you guys
changed the name to equity.
does not mean it's
not the same thing
as the critical race theory.
- I mean. those kinds of
soundbites where people go.
"Well. I don't want
my child indoctrinated.
I want my child educated. Why
can't we have real education?
Why do we have to
have this indoctrination?"
- [Reporter] Dr. James
Whitfield. the first black principal
at Colleyville
Heritage High School.
officially removed
from his position
during an emotional
school board meeting.
All of it over what he
says was a false accusation
of promoting
critical race theory.
- I mean. this is brilliant.
that we're now having
national debates
about what happens
in classrooms.
It's brilliant.
- Go and run for
your school board.
Get onto your city council.
Do whatever you have to do
to protect what's being
taught in our schools.
- The folks who are into
the soundbites never have
to define it.
- The goal is to have the
public read something crazy
in the newspaper and
immediately think critical race theory.
- They ply on a fear.
They ply on the feelings
that what this is doing
is this is an assault
against your children.
And we are here to
protect your children.
- Getting critical race
theory out of our schools
is not just a matter of values.
it's also a matter
of national survival.
We have no choice.
The fate of any nation
ultimately depends
upon the willingness of
its citizens to lay down.
and they must do this.
lay down their very lives
to defend their country.
(somber music)
(protesters shouting)
- What happened on January 6th?
You had the American
flag taken down.
the Trump flag raised and
the Confederate flag raised
inside the Capitol
of the United States.
They did what the 9/11
terrorists failed to do.
- The president invited me.
And he invited
me. I had to come.
- And the Republican
Party had a chance
to hold Trump accountable.
and they blinked.
- [Instructor] How is
that about being white?
- Well. how many black
people did you see breaking
into the Capitol?
Not many.
Anytime you're carrying
Confederate flags. it's about race.
- The Oath Keepers were there.
The Three Percenters were there.
Also the QAnon networks.
Also the Ku Klux
Klan. the Aryan Nations.
white Christian
nationalist groups.
Multiple religious
cults were there
and many other groups like that.
- Some of them
would try to recruit me.
One of them came up to me
and said. "Are you my brother?"
- Racism. whether we
want to admit it or not.
was an undercurrent to what
happened on January 6th.
- Apparently. they're seeing
even through my mask.
They saw my skin color and said.
"You're not even an American."
- Like. we just have to
cut through the bullshit
and call it for what it was.
- One woman in a
pink MAGA shirt yelled.
"You hear that. guys? This
nigger voted for Joe Biden."
Then the crowd.
perhaps around 20 people.
joined in. screaming.
"Boo! Fucking nigger."
- The majority of the folk
who were arrested came
from places where white
population is in decline.
(somber music)
This fear of being displaced.
this fear of being
replaced. right.
it's driving political behavior.
Driving folk to engage
in something as dramatic
as assaulting
the Capitol itself.
- So here's what
terrifies him. right?
Of Americans 15 years and under.
the majority are non-white.
So odds are really.
really. really good
they're gonna turn 18
and still be non-white.
And that's the end of
the Republican Party.
if they let these people vote.
Of the new census. right now.
only 1 out of every 10
new Americans is white.
That's what they're afraid
of. That's what it's about.
All the Stephen Millers
in the world can't stop
that from happening.
- I don't think you can
really find an example
in history of a country
where a racial majority
has lost its top spot
in its political power
and hegemony
to a multicultural arrangement
without there being violence
and tremendous
trauma and dislocation.
And the people who are
organizing the violence
and the assault on
democratic institutions
are perfectly well aware
of what they're doing
and what their
propaganda messages are.
And they're
mobilizing that anxiety
and that hatred
around scapegoats
and then around attacks
on democracy itself.
- We have to begin to
draw the through line.
There are those
who believe that.
culturally and demographically.
they're under threat.
- There is a plan.
The plan was to infiltrate
100 million illegal immigrants.
and these people would dilute
what they call the
pool of patriots.
- Demographic change is the key
to the Democratic
Party's political ambitions.
In order to win
and maintain power.
Democrats plan to change
the population of the country.
- One of the best
examples. I think.
of an idea that
was on the fringe.
that has moved
into the mainstream.
is the great replacement theory.
- Democrats believe
that they have to repeal
and replace the
American electorate.
- In political terms.
this policy is called
the Great Replacement.
- This is this idea that white.
kind of European descent
people are being culturally
and demographically
replaced by people of color.
- The replacement
of legacy Americans
with more obedient people
from far away countries.
- So in April of 2021.
you have Tucker Carlson
on his show explicitly endorse
the great replacement theory.
- To reduce the
political power of people
whose ancestors lived here
and dramatically
increase the proportion
of Americans newly
arrived from the third world.
- And this sent a shockwave
through the white
supremacist community.
who are talking about
how well Tucker Carlson
just red pilled millions
of people because of his reach.
(dramatic music)
- The people at the top
don't necessarily believe
in replacement theory.
- The Great Replacement plan.
- At the top. it's seen
as an opportunity.
You know. it's
seen as a strategy.
It's seen as a way to make
money and gain power.
So I think we have to
differentiate between. you know.
the people that are
kind of moving the pawns
around the chess board
and the people that are
just being moved around
and not in the know about it.
that they are actually pawns.
(dramatic music)
Who think that
their place in society.
in American society. is
being taken away from them
and given to someone
else who's not American.
- Talk to me about
this term "invasion."
When you hear that term
being thrown out like that.
it causes you to
pause for a second.
- When you look at the social
demographic economic data.
it does not align
itself with the fear
that we see these
people are having.
They've not been displaced
from positions of power.
They've not been
displaced from the workforce.
But they don't rely
upon facts. It's fiction.
And if I can create a sense.
whether perceived or real.
that even what we have
now. which is diminished.
is going to be gone altogether.
then that creates an
either greater cauldron
of fear and calamity.
- This is a different
type of invasion.
intended one day. in
the next 15 to 20 years.
to become citizens
and to become voters.
So the Democrats. in their view.
have a lock on this
country for forever.
- They wanna replace
the American electorate
with a third-world electorate.
- 48% of Americans.
overall. Americans.
agreed that demographic
changes were part of a. quote.
"purposeful plan to
replace white voters."
- The data shows.
social scientists and
political scientists have shown.
that particularly among white
Evangelical Republican men.
the feeling of cultural
and demographic threat
is heightened to the point
to where they are
susceptible to violence.
- What would solve the
whole thing in the border?
If they would
just start shooting.
Only shoot a couple.
and they would go home.
- [Reporter] Panic in
El Paso this morning
when a day of shopping-
- [Shopper] Let's go. let's go.
- [Reporter] turned into horror
with an active
shooter on the loose.
- You think about El
Paso. This is the shooter.
Young man comes down.
and what does he do?
In the name of what?
This 2.300-page manifesto.
- Law enforcement officials
in Texas say they believe he
wrote an essay on the internet
and posted it an hour
or so before the shooting.
It says the attack was motivated
by anti-immigrant hatred.
- In the name of the fear that
we're going to be replaced.
- [Reporter] Shots rang
out just before 10:00 AM.
- [Policeman] We're
under fire. We're under fire.
- [Reporter] The chaos unfolding
at the Tree of Life
Synagogue in Pittsburgh.
- You think about Pittsburgh.
The shooter said that this
global Jewish cabal is funding.
right. these immigrants
to change the very nature
of the country and
look what happened.
The slaughter.
- He had posted
about the caravan
of migrants moving up
from Central America.
called them invaders.
- [Reporter] Deadly
violence at a house of worship
in San Diego.
One person is dead after
a synagogue shooting.
- In his manifesto. he says.
"Jews are planning a
genocide of the European race."
- [Reporter] Police say
13 people were shot.
10 of them killed
Saturday afternoon
at this Tops Friendly
Market in Northeast Buffalo.
- The young man who walks
into the supermarket in Buffalo.
Now. that's just the
spectacle of bloody violence.
- My wife and I had been
over in Niagara Falls.
Coming back. my
sister-in-law called and said.
"Did you hear about
what happened at Tops?"
I said. "No. I didn't
hear anything."
- Breaking news out
of Buffalo. New York.
A mass shooting at
a Tops grocery store.
- I tell my wife. "I'm going
to check on my mom."
because Tops is
only a couple of blocks
from the nursing home
that she goes to every day
to take care of my dad.
News just started coming
out. I go down to Tops.
She drove a 2020 black Hyundai.
My mom was a thrift
shopper and all that.
so she would always have
a bunch of crap in the car.
Like. you know. she
would have signs like.
"God is my copilot."
She would hand write with
maybe a nail polish or something.
put it in the window.
That's my mom. Anyway.
it was my mom's car.
The detective went in.
and he didn't come back.
which makes me
know that she's in there.
So I mean.
I was by myself. I was crying.
And they came and they
put their arms around me
and confirmed
what I already knew.
that she was in there.
And there's nothing to say.
What are you gonna say?
I mean. what could
they have said?
- Authorities also say
the manifesto revealed
the suspect was motivated
by something called
replacement theory.
- My dad's a couple
blocks away. you know.
In 68 years. man.
she was his caretaker.
You understand? Every
day she took care of him.
She's the only
reason he was alive.
I mean. what am I
gonna say to him?
- The things we talk
about. the words we use.
the notions we put out
there. they become reality.
- The coronation of
Kamala Harris is underway.
- Marxist Kamala
Harris. Comrade Kamala.
- You can say Kamala.
you can say Kamala.
I said. "Don't worry about it.
It doesn't matter what I say.
I couldn't care less if I
mispronounce it or not."
- And the more of a camera
and the more of a platform
we give that type of messaging.
those words. the more
the actions are taken.
and those actions go
on to create the reality
that we live in.
- People who work
in conservative media
are gonna keep selling fear.
- She's a radical.
cratering our sense of
self. our southern border.
our national identity.
- They've seen that it's worked.
and they're gonna
continue to do it.
- The first Samoan. Malaysian.
low-IQ. former
California prosecutor.
- Think about the types of
people that are being drawn
to Donald Trump's party.
Think about what the
22-year-old is like. who says.
"I wanna sign
up for this." right?
That's a category difference.
like. a type of person.
than had gotten into
politics in the past.
- I am worried about
more violence. I am.
And. you know. I
think it's something
that's gonna affect
people across the country.
- I'm optimistic
because I'm a preacher.
I'm a pastor. I'm a believer.
so my hope is not of this world.
My hope is built
on nothing less.
So. you know. I mean.
listen. I lived long enough
'cause I lived through
the Civil Rights Movement.
lived through the Vietnam
War protest movement.
and I've seen things get better.
and I've seen things get worse.
And I know sometimes it takes
what we're going through now
to get people motivated
to do what is necessary
to change this.
It's not going to happen
watching the evening news
and being disgusted.
It's not going to happen
calling your friend
and sharing your
sentiments and ventilating.
you know. your frustration.
There are enough good
people of all hues and colors
and stations of life who
really believe that this ought
to be a country
that's open to all
and that embraces diversity
and sees what we presently
experiencing as insanity
and racism and
prejudice and hatred.
- I've been trying to
teach to young people that
for most of the
existence of our species.
people have lived under
bullies and dictators and kings.
People like Vladimir
Putin and Donald Trump.
Democracy is
totally the exception.
That's the
magnificence of America.
That's why people love America.
Because even with the
flawed beginnings we have
with slavery and so
on. the ideals were there
to create the world's greatest
multiracial. multicultural.
multi-religious democracy.
And we're on the
path to getting there
if the dictators don't catch up
and destroy all
our institutions first.
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
- [Leader] One. two.
- [Children] So Much Film.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm